## COBRA-Seq: *Using Metabolic Modeling to Refine Clustering in Single Cell-RNA Sequencing*

Single cell-RNA sequencing(scRNA-seq) has become more common due to its ability to recognize and deal with heterogeneity within cell populations. However, clustering methods may not be able to effectively deal with cyclic expression in single cell types. Typically, to deal with such cyclic expression, multiple cell types need to be defined and intermediates between discrete states may be unclear or not biologically significant, introducing erroneous clusters that can contribute to confusion.
 
Here we propose the use of metabolic modeling as a method for refining clustering in scRNA-seq data sets. We hope to use metabolic modeling as a proxy for the state of the cell and the demands being placed on the cell, which we hypothesize to be distinct for different cell types. Using initial expression data, we aim to model the trajectories of cells through time. Due to the chaotic nature of probabilistic modeling, indistinguishable differences in expression may be exaggerated, allowing for cell types to be readily differentiated. 

As a proof of concept, we use a truncated single cell RNAseq data set and model each cell’s trajectory. Following modeling we will characterize each cell’s trajectory using a curve fit to a Fourier series, following the hypothesis that our distinguishing variables are cyclic. By comparing trajectories, we aim to minimize the effect of noise introduced by the shallow read depth of single cell RNAseq and take advantage of the complex regulatory interactions that modulate cell trajectories. 
